no-vary: URI/URL/Caching terminology (fixes #3283) (#3284)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-no-vary-search.md

--- abstract

This specification defines a proposed HTTP response header field for changing how URI query parameters impact caching.

--- middle

# Introduction

> HTTP caching {{HTTP-CACHING}} is based on reusing resources which match across a number of cache keys. One of the most prominent is the presented target URI ({{Section 7.1 of HTTP}}). However, sometimes multiple URIs can represent the same resource. This leads to caches not always being as helpful as they could be: if the cache contains a response under one URI, but the resource is then requested under another, the cached version will be ignored.

Reviewer: It's a bit odd to call it "response" and then "resource" immediately after, we should be consistent to avoid confusion.

No-Vary-Search: params, except=("productId")
~~~~

{{header-definition}} defines the header field, using the {{STRUCTURED-FIELDS}} framework. {{data-model}} and {{parsing}} illustrate the data model for how the field value can be represented in specifications, and the process for parsing the raw output from the structured field parser into that data model. {{comparing}} gives the key algorithm for comparing if two URLs are equivalent under the influence of the header field; notably, it leans on the decomposition of the query component into keys and values given by the [application/x-www-form-urlencoded](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-urlencoded) format specified in {{WHATWG-URL}}. (As such, this header field is not useful for URLs whose query component does not follow that format.) Finally, {{caching}} explains how to extend {{Section 4 of HTTP-CACHING}} to take this new equivalence into account.

# Conventions and Definitions

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

> In this document, the terms "URI" and "URL" are used mostly interchangeably, depending on context ({{URI}} and {{HTTP}} vs the algorithms specified in {{WHATWG-URL}}). 

Reviewer: It's not totally clear which is used when, so suggesting some text to make that clearer hopefully:

```suggestion
In this document, the terms "URI" and "URL" are used interchangeably, depending on context. "URI" is used in the context of {{URI}}, {{HTTP}}, and {{HTTP-CACHING}}, whereas "URL" is used in the context of the algorithms specified in {{WHATWG-URL}}.
```

### Examples

> The parse a key algorithm allows encoding non-ASCII key strings in the ASCII structured header field format, similar to how the [application/x-www-form-urlencoded](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-urlencoded) format {{WHATWG-URL}} allows encoding an entire entry list of keys and values in URI (which is constricted to ASCII characters). For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parse a key algorithm allows encoding non-ASCII key strings in the ASCII structured header field format, similar to how the [application/x-www-form-urlencoded](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-urlencoded) format {{WHATWG-URL}} allows encoding an entire entry list of keys and values in a URI (which is restricted to ASCII characters). For example,
```
